ENH: define reusable macros for runtime checks (#189)
idefix-code/idefix: doc/source/programmingguide.rst

  export KOKKOS_TOOLS_LIBS=<kokkos-tools-bin>/profiling/space-time-stack/libkp_space_time_stack.so

.. _defensiveProgramming::

Defensive Programming
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``idefix.hpp`` defines useful function-like macros to program defensively and create
informative error messages and warnings.

First and foremost, ``IDEFIX_ERROR`` and ``IDEFIX_WARNING`` can be used in host space.

.. code-block:: c++

  #include "idefix.hpp"

  #ifdef HAVE_ENERGY
  IDEFIX_WARNING("This setup is not tested with HAVE_ENERGY defined");
  #endif

  real boxSize {-1};

  // ... determine boxSize at runtime from parameter file

  if(boxSize<1e-5) {
    IDEFIX_ERROR("This setup requires a minimal box size of 1e-5");
  }

``idefix.hpp`` also defines the more advanced ``RUNTIME_CHECK_HOST`` and
``RUNTIME_CHECK_KERNEL`` macros, which are useful to define arbitrary sanity checks at
runtime in host space and within kernels respectively, together with a nicely formatted
error message.

Both macros take a condition (a boolean expression that *should* evaluate to ``true`` at
runtime), and an error message. Additional arguments may be supplemented to the error

> message using string interpolation. As an illustrative example, here's how they can be

Author: I should also mention here that, because string interpolation isn't possible within GPU kernels, a default (simpler) error message is also required for `RUNTIME_CHECK_KERNEL`

used to verify some assumptions at runtime.

.. code-block:: c++

  #include "idefix.hpp"

>   const int MAX_NPARTICLES = 1024

Author: ```suggestion
  const int MAX_NPARTICLES = 1024;
```

  const int NPARTICLES = 128;
  const real lightSpeed = 1.0;
  auto particleSpeed = IdefixArray1D<real>("particleSpeed", NPARTICLES);

  RUNTIME_CHECK_HOST(
    NPARTICLES<=MAX_NPARTICLES,
    "The number of particles requested (%i) is too high (max is %i)",
    NPARTICLES, MAX_NPARTICLES
  );

  idefix_for("check particle speeds",
    0, NPARTICLES,
    KOKKOS_LAMBDA(int idx) {
      RUNTIME_CHECK_KERNEL(
        particleSpeed(idx) < lightSpeed,
        "Particle at index %i has speed %.16e, which is greater than light speed (%.16e)",
        idx, particleSpeed(idx), lightSpeed
      );
    }
  );

``RUNTIME_CHECK_HOST`` and ``RUNTIME_CHECK_KERNEL`` are considered debug-only tools, so
are by default excluded at compilation, and do not impact performance in production.

> To enable them, use the `-DIdefix_RUNTIME_CHECKS=ON` configuration flag.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable them, use the `-D Idefix_RUNTIME_CHECKS=ON` configuration flag.
```
